<details>
<summary>📖 JSON schema:</summary>
<br />
  
```ts
{
  bin: string,
  cwd?: string,
  args?: string,
  env?: object,
  priority?: string,
  hide?: bool,
  shell?: bool,
  wait?: bool,
  script?: {
    path: string,
    fs?: bool,
    net?: bool,
    reg?: bool,
    exec?: bool,
    import?: bool
  },
  addons?: []{
    path: string, 
    required?: bool
  },
  suspended?: bool,
  affinity?: []number,
  integrity?: []{
    sri: string, 
    path?: string, 
    size?: number,
    signed?: bool
  },
  splash?: {
    show: bool,
    image: []string,
    timeout?: number,
    wait?: string
  },
  symlink?: []{
    path: string,
    dest: string
  },
  shortcut?: {
    name: string,
    desktop?: bool,
    startmenu?: bool
  },
  compatibility?: {
    version?: string,
    fullscreen?: bool,
    admin?: bool,
    invoker?: bool,
    aware?: bool
  },
  patch?: {
    laa?: bool
  },
  prefix?: {
    winver?: string,
    dpi?: number,
    overrides?: object
  },
  attrib?: []{
    path: string,
    hidden?: boolean,
    readonly?: boolean
  },
  menu?: object
}
```
</details>

### `bin: string`

File path to the executable to launch.<br />
Path can be absolute or relative (to the current working dir).

`%VAR%` are expanded if any (see Expanding Variable for more details).

### `cwd?: string` (parent directory)

An option to override the current working dir of the executable to be launched.<br />
This is equivalent to the "Start In" option of a Windows shortcut.

By default the parent directory of the executable is used.<br />
Example: `G:\METAPHOR\METAPHOR.exe` => `G:\METAPHOR\`

### `args?: string` (none)

Optional argument(s) to pass to the executable.<br />
Argument(s) are passed "verbatim" ie: no quoting or escaping is done.

`%VAR%` are expanded if any (see Expanding Variable for more details).

### `env?: object` (none)

Add additional environment key-value pairs to the executable process.

Example:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "GAMEPAD_LED": "BATTERYLVL"
  }
}
```

`%VAR%` in value are expanded if any (see Expanding Variable for more details).

### `priority?: string` (none)

Set the executable process priority class:

- `IDLE`:          Threads run only when the system is idle.
- `BELOW_NORMAL`:  _Above `IDLE` but below `NORMAL`._
- `NORMAL`:        This is the default.
- `ABOVE_NORMAL`:  _Above `NORMAL` but below `HIGH`._ 
- `HIGH`:          Performs time-critical tasks that must be executed immediately. 
- `REALTIME`:      Highest possible priority, higher than operating system processes performing important tasks.

> [!WARNING] 
> Use extreme care when using **HIGH**, because a high-priority class application can use nearly all available CPU time.
> Even more so with **REALTIME** which can cause issues like disk cache not flushing or unresponsive mouse.

### `hide?: bool` (false)

When enabled, the executable will run without displaying a window, making it invisible to the user.

### `shell?: bool` (false)

When enabled runs inside of a shell (%COMSPEC% ie `cmd.exe`).<br />
💡 Use the `hide` option above to hide the shell.

### `wait?: bool` (false)

When enabled, will wait for the executable to terminate before exiting.

⚠️ The command line flag `--wait` always enables this behavior.

> [!TIP]
> This option can be used in conjunction with the Lua API to run some code on executable exit! 

```lua
local process = require("process")
process.On("will-quit", function()
  print("Bye bye!")
  -- do some cleanup for example
  -- like idk deleting logs generated by mods 🙃
end)
```

### `script?: { path: string, fs, net, reg, exec, import?: bool }` (none)

Lua script to be run just before the executable.<br />
See the `./example` directory for some examples.

Originally this feature was for handling CD Key generation in old games.<br />
The Lua API has since become quite extensive, so please kindly see the **Lua Scripting** section for more details.

- `path: string`

  Script file path can be absolute or relative (to the current working dir).<br />
  `%VAR%` are expanded if any (see Expanding Variable for more details).

- `fs, net, reg, exec, import ?: bool` (false)

  These flags act as a simple permissions system: 
  + `fs`: Filesystem operation
  + `net`: Network request
  + `reg`: Windows registry
  + `exec`: Shell command
  + `import`: Load external Lua code (via require, loadfile, loadstring, ...)

  You must explicitly grant access to these resources.

### `addons?: []{ path: string, required?: boolean }` (none)

> DLL Injection / ASI plugin loading

> [!WARNING]
> DLL Injection is generally associated with malware or cheats.
> Using this feature has a high chance of triggering an antivirus false positive.

List of addons to inject to the executable process.<br />
Supported file extension:
  - `.dll` (Dynamic link library)
  - `.asi` (Commonly used in game modding; technically it's a `.dll` file with a different extension).

When `required` is set to `true` and the injection failed: alert the user and kill the process.

Path can be absolute or relative (to the current working dir).<br />
`%VAR%` are expanded if any (see Expanding Variable for more details).

Example:
```json
{
  "addons": [
    { "path": "Launcher/opencnconline.dll", "required": true }
  ]
}
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This launcher does not support Wow64 injection so make sure the launcher, the executable and the addon are all the same arch (x86 or x64).

### `suspended?: bool` (false)

When enabled, the main thread of the executable process is created in a suspended state and does not run until resumed.

The main thread will be automatically resumed after the process affinity and addons injection steps.

> [!TIP]
> Some addons may require the executable to be started in such state in order to function properly.

### `affinity?: []number` (none)

> [!IMPORTANT] 
> This option requires the `suspended` option to be enabled (see above) otherwise it is skipped!.

Set the CPU affinity (pin to specific cores).<br />
CPU indices are **logical** cores, exactly as shown in Windows' Task Manager.

Examples:

Pinning to the first core

```json
{
  "affinity": [0]
}
```

Pinning to the 3rd and 4th cores

```json
{
  "affinity": [2, 3]
}
```

Process affinity is set before any addons injection occurs to ensure that all threads are pinned to the specified logical cores.

**When should I use this?**

Some games behave better when restricted to specific CPU cores:

  - Old games not designed for multi-core CPUs (ex: extreme gameplay speed on multi-core CPUs).
  - Games that stutter or misbehave on modern systems.
  
⚠️ Most games do not need this option, use it only when required.

### `integrity?: []{sri: string, path?: string, size?: number, signed?: bool}` (none)

Check file(s) integrity before starting the executable.

- `sri: string` 
  is a [Subresource Integrity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Subresource_Integrity), algo supported are `sha256, sha384, sha512`.

- `path?: string` (executable path) 
  File path, can be absolute or relative (to the current working dir). If no path is specified then the sri targets the executable path.<br />
  `%VAR%` are expanded if any (see Expanding Variable for more details).

- `size?: number`
  optional file size (in bytes), to accelerate sum comparison.
  
- `signed?: bool` (false)
  When true, will check if the file is signed and trusted.
  
### `splash?: { show: bool, image: []string, timeout?: number }` (none)

Display a splash screen until the executable process change the cursor or display a window. The splash screen should be a BMP file. 

- `show: bool` (false)
  Wether to display the splash screen or not.

- `image: []string` 
  Splash screen filepath. When more than one, a splash screen is selected at random.<br />
  File path can be absolute or relative (to the current working dir).<br />
  `%VAR%` are expanded if any (see Expanding Variable for more details).
  
- `timeout?: number` (10 sec)
  Failsafe timeout in seconds.<br />
  There was no event dispatched under Linux/Proton on Wayland in my limited testing.
  
- `wait?: string` ("FOREGROUND")
  Which window event to wait for (case insensitive):
  
  + `FOREGROUND`: The foreground window has changed and is visible.
  + `WINDOW`: An hidden window is shown.
  + `CURSOR`: An hidden cursor is shown.
  
### `symlink?: []{path: string, dest: string}` (none)

Creates folder symlink before starting the executable.<br />
Path can be absolute or relative (to the current working dir).<br />
`%VAR%` are expanded if any (see Expanding Variable for more details).

💡 Useful for savegames:

```json
{
  "symlink": [
    { 
      "path": "%DOCUMENTS%/Telltale Games/The Walking Dead",
      "dest": "%SAVEGAME%/The Walking Dead"
    }
  ]
}
```

> [!CAUTION]
> This requires elevated privileges ("Admin rights") or the `SeCreateSymbolicLinkPrivilege` privilege.

> [!TIP]
> On Windows the launcher will restart automatically with elevated privileges triggering an UAC prompt for the end user.

### `shortcut?: { name: string, desktop?: bool, startmenu?: bool}` (none)

Creates desktop / start menu shortcut(s) on launch.

### `compatibility?: object` (none)

Set `Program Compatibility Assistant` (PCA) flags, this is equivalent to the `right click > Properties > Compatibility tab` on Windows.

PCA flag(s) are set in `HKCU/Software/Microsoft/Windows NT/CurrentVersion/AppCompatFlags/Layers`.

🐧 This has no effect on application behavior under Wine/Proton

- `version?: string`
  Run the executable in compatibility mode for:
    + `WIN95`
    + `WIN98`
    + `WIN2000`
    + `WINXP`
    + `WINXPSP1`
    + `WINXPSP2`
    + `WINXPSP3`
    + `VISTARTM`
    + `VISTASP1`
    + `VISTASP2`
    + `WIN7RTM`
    + `WIN8RTM`
    
- `fullscreen?: bool`
  Disable fullscreen optimizations.

- `admin?: bool`
  Run the executable as an Administrator.
  
- `invoker?: bool`
  Enforce running the executable as the invoker.
  
- `aware?: bool`
  Override high DPI scaling behavior (Application).

NB: `admin` and `invoker` are mutually exclusive. If both are set `admin` supersede `invoker`.

### `patch?: object` (none)

Patch(es) to apply to the executable.

Does nothing by default; You must explicitly set a patch to `true` or `false`.

- `laa?: bool`:<br/>
  **Large Adress Aware**<br/>
  Allow x86 binary to access up to 4GB of virtual memory (instead of only 2) on x64 Windows.<br/>
  This option set (`true`) or unset (`false`) the LAA flag bit in the PE Header.<br/>
  
NB: Patching is done prior to any integrity check because it directly modifies the executable.

### `prefix?: {winver?: string, dpi?: number, overrides?: object}` (none)

🐧 Linux Wine/Proton only.

Update current prefix settings.

- `winver?: string`
  Windows version. Accepted values are: 
    + `win11`
    + `win10`
    + `win81` 
    + `win8`
    + `win7`
    + `vista` 
    + `winxp`
  
- `dpi?: number`
  Scale factor: 96 (100%), 120 (125%), 144 (150%), 192 (200%) to 480 (500%).

- `overrides?: object` 
  key-value pairs of dll overrrides. Accepted values:
    + `native,builtin`
    + `builtin,native`
    + `native`
    + `builtin`
    
Example: 

```json
{
  "prefix": {
    "winver": "win10",
    "dpi": 96,
    "overrides": {
      "winmm": "native,builtin"
    }
  }
}
```

### `attrib?: []{path: string, hidden?: boolean = false, readonly?: boolean = false}` (none)

Set file(s) attributes: read only and/or hidden.

Path can be absolute or relative (to the current working dir).<br />
`%VAR%` are expanded if any (see Expanding Variable for more details).

💡NB: This is done before running any Lua Script.
If you are dynamically creating/modifying file(s), consider the Lua API: `file.SetAttributes()` (see below).

### `menu?: object` (none)

Show a very simple button menu where each key/value pair is a button label and its corresponding override config file.

Example:

```json
{
  "menu": {
    "Mass Effect": "me.json",
    "Mass Effect 2": "me2.json",
    "Mass Effect 3": "me3.json"
  }
}
```

Path can be absolute or relative (to the current working dir).
`%VAR%` in the path are expanded if any (see Expanding Variable for more details).

💡 You can point an entry to the default config file.
If empty, the default is assumed ie: the value of `--config string` which defaults to `launcher.json`

Example:

```json
{
  "binary": "bin/bg3_dx11.exe"
  "menu": {
    "Baldurs Gate 3": "",
    "Baldurs Gate 3 (Vulkan)": "vulkan.json"
  }
}
```